Now, let's take a look at the algorithm.
So, here's the algorithm used to calculate the prediction of a tree,
given a subset of features.
You can check out the paper Consistent
Individualized Feature Attribution for Tree Ensembles,
page 4 algorithm 1.
If I went to the paper itself and I scroll down to page 4,
in section 3.1, it describes
this simple algorithm and I've actually taken
a screenshot of this and put it into the Notebook.
So that's what we're going to go over.
Back to the Notebook. So, I'll go over each of the variables and describe them.
Don't worry if you don't get this at first,
because it takes a while to get used to what all these variables are and also,
get more comfortable with how they're related to each other.
So, here G is a function.
You can see that procedure G is defined here,
all the way through here.
Procedure G is a function that gets called
recursively to walk down the tree starting at the root node.
W is the weight given to the predictions of each node.
You see w being used right here in w times something.
Now, v is the prediction of a leaf node,
so you can see a v is used here.
R sub a sub j and r sub b sub j.
So these r values,
are the number of data points in the left and right child nodes of a node that's
defined by index j. R sub j is the number of data points in row j.
What they're saying is that the r variables are representing the number
of training samples that are sitting inside a particular node.
We actually see the r's used in this line of the procedure.
So now we'll look at the specific parts of this algorithm in more detail.
Feel free to pause here, if you want to look at it on the Notebook yourself.